DIP Docs (#291)
KILTprotocol/docs: docs/concepts/07_dip/01_overview.md

---
id: what-is-dip
title: Overview
---

The Decentralized Identity Provider (DIP) enables a cross-chain decentralized identity system that mirrors the functionality of OpenID.

DIP has three key roles: the identity **provider**, the **consumer**, and the **user**.

- The identity **provider** is any blockchain with an identity system that makes it available for other chains, e.g., KILT Protocol, Litentry, etc.
- The **consumer** is any blockchain that has chosen to delegate identity management to the provider, thus relieving it of needing to maintain its identity infrastructure.
- The **user** is an entity with an identity on the provider chain and wants to use it on other chains without setting up a new identity on each. A Dapp developer can use the DIP SDK to make this process easier for the user and add other DIP-related features to their app.

This means that parachains requiring an identity solution don’t need to build their own infrastructure.
Instead, they can leverage the infrastructure DIP provides.

> DIP is open-source, and you can integrate it with existing Polkadot-compatible runtimes with minimal changes and without affecting the fee model of the relying party.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DIP is open-source, and you can integrate it with existing Polkadot-compatible runtimes with minimal changes and without affecting the fee model of the consumer system.
```

## Adding support to a parachain

There are several steps to add DIP support to a Substrate-based parachain, depending on the chain's role.

### Provider chain

1. Define the format of identity proofs and how verification works with the consumer chains.
2. Add the DIP provider pallet as a dependency to the chain runtime.
3. Configure the DIP provider pallet using the required `Config` trait.

:::info

Find more details in the [Provider pallet](./02_provider.md) section.

:::

### Consumer chain

1. Discover and retrieve the format of your identity proofs and how verification works with your identity provider
2. Add the DIP consumer pallet as a dependency to the chain runtime
3. Configure the DIP consumer pallet using the required `Config` trait.
4. Deploy it on chain, along with any additional pallets the identity provider requires.

:::info

Find more details in the [Consumer pallet](./03_consumer.md) section.

:::

## User accounts

> For an account to take advantage of DIP it needs a decentralized identity (DID) and to create a transaction on the provider chain to generate a cross-chain identity commitment.

Reviewer: This is not really necessary. People need a DID if they want to use KILT as an identity provider. But other providers will probably not require people to have a DID, if they themselves do not deal with DIDs.

For an account to be able to do this, a Dapp developer needs to build the functionality into their app for a user using the DIP SDK.

:::info

> Find more details in the [user account](./05_user_account.md) section.

Reviewer: These sections are shown in reverse order in the sidebar. Maybe you can switch the order either in the sidebar or in this section?

---
id: what-is-dip
title: Overview
---

> The Decentralized Identity Provider (DIP) enables cross-chain decentralized identity system that mirrors the functionality of OpenID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Decentralized Identity Provider (DIP) enables a cross-chain decentralized identity system that mirrors the functionality of OpenID.
```

Reviewer: Was this regarded as discarded? I see it as resolved by the suggestion not being merged.

This means that parachains requiring an identity solution don’t need to build their own infrastructure.
Instead, they can leverage the infrastructure DIP provides.

> DIP is open-source, and you can integrate it with existing Polkadot-compatible runtimes with minimal changes and without affecting the fee model of the relying party.

Reviewer: I feel we should first describe who the different parties are, before mentioning the relying party. I would add such a description after the line that says DIP mirrors OpenID features.

> DIP has three key roles: the identity **provider**, the **consumer**, and the **user**.

Reviewer: Also, relying party == consumer, but we should pick one. We've gone with consumer so far (although in the treasury proposal we say relying party).

Author: @ntn-x2 It's a bit inconsistent across the board but I think "consumer" is clearer and it matches the pallet names.

Reviewer: I agree with can go with "consumer".

- The identity **provider** is any blockchain with an identity system that makes it available for other chains, e.g., KILT Protocol, Litentry, etc.
- The relaying party or **consumer** is any blockchain that has chosen to delegate identity management to the provider, thus relieving it of needing to maintain its identity infrastructure.
- The **user** is an entity with an identity on the provider chain and wants to use it on other chains without setting up a new identity on each. A Dapp developer can use the DIP SDK to make this process easier for the user and add other DIP-related features to their app.

## Adding support to a parachain

> There are several steps to add DIP support to a substrate-based parachain, depending on the chain's role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several steps to add DIP support to a Substrate-based parachain, depending on the chain's role.
```

I think Substrate always starts with capital S.

### Provider chain

> 1. Find the format of your identity proofs and how verification works with your consumer chains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Define the format of your identity proofs and how verification works with your consumer chains.
```

rather?

2. Add the DIP provider pallet as a dependency in your chain runtime.
3. Configure the DIP provider pallet using the required `Config` trait.

:::info Find out more

You can find more details in the [Provider pallet](./02_provider.md) section.

:::

### Consumer chain

> 1. Agree on the format of your identity proofs and how verification works with your identity provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Discover/Retrieve on the format of your identity proofs and how verification works with your identity provider
```

not sure "agree" is the best term here?

2. Add the DIP consumer pallet as a dependency in your chain runtime
3. Configure the DIP consumer pallet using the required `Config` trait.

> 4. Deploy it on your chain, along with any additional pallets the identity provider requires.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Deploy it on your chain, along with any additional pallets that help the cross-chain identity proof verification.
```

The provider does not demand any additional pallet to be deployed by a consumer besides the properly-configured consumer pallet. It is the consumer pallet which might rely on additional features that other pallets provide.

:::info Find out more

You can find more details in the [Consumer pallet](./03_consumer.md) section.

:::

## User accounts

For an account to take advantage of DIP it needs a decentralized identity (DID) and to create a transaction on the provider chain to generate a cross-chain identity commitment.

There are two options for an account to do this:

-   A Dapp developer builds the functionality into their app for a user using the DIP SDK.

> -   The user uses the KILT DID utilities library themselves.

Reviewer: We never advertised this as a production-ready tool, because it is not 😃 So rather I would say a user would need to use the DIP SDK themselves, not the KILT DID utilities library. That's more for quick testing for developers (since it's a command line tool).
